<div align="center">
   <h3 align="center">OptimalRoutingAlgorithmOnDRT</h3>
  <p align="center">
     Code for 'Accessibility, Resource Allocation and Demand-Responsive
Transportation: Testing the Fifteen Minute City Hypothesis for Jerusalem'!
  </p>
</div>

### About The Project 
This project investigates whether demand-responsive transportation (DRT) increases accessibility and inclusion in FMC. We develop an optimal route algorithm that generates travel routes by combining the DBSCAN algorithm and the A* algorithm. We compare the travel time and distance of Jerusalem's traditional public transportation system in 15-minute. We draw conclusions based on historical traffic data, urban demographic data, and land-use distribution.

### Overview
- GroupPassengers.py <br>
Travel demand grouping algorithm. Create a two-dimensional matrix and mark the TAZs relevant to Jerusalem. Take the departure and destination of the passenger travel demand csv file as the input file and mark the corresponding position in the matrix. Import the sklearn package, group the high-density areas by DBSCAN method, create departure and destination groups, and find the center point of each group to represent the passenger gathering point. Output the grouped CSV file and scatter plot.

- TestData.py <br>
Experimental test data. Including the input parameter CSV file address for heuristic function evaluation; the travel demand grouping generated by GroupPassengers.py; the four groups of feasible route adjacency matrices established based on the travel demand grouping.

- RouteResearch.py <br>
Path search algorithm. Based on the 90 TAZs relevant to Jerusalem matrices, initialize the output parameter - the best path matrix. The input file is from the four sets of adjacency matrices established by TestData.py, the fixed weight values calculated by ArcGIS software, and the variable weight values of the hourly travel volume of each zone. Create a heuristic evaluation function for the A* algorithm, combine the Manhattan distance value and the heuristic function result to calculate the successor node cost for the current node; select the minimum value to move forward and mark it in the best path matrix, traverse the graph in a breadth-first algorithm until reaching the destination node. Output the best path matrix. 
  
- Probability.py <br>
This function counts the inbound and outbound traffic in each area every hour on weekdays, creates a CSV file of variable weight values for the heuristic function, and draws a violin plot to show the hour with the largest travel flow, so as to select the test time.

### Tools
* Matplotlib | pyplot
* Sklearn | cluster

<!-- LICENSE -->
### CopyRight
[2024] Under the owner: Fang Xu. 

<!-- CONTACT -->
### Contact
Fang Xu - fang.xs@outlook.com
